To check the IP Address from Windows command prompt: 
ipconfig
NAT Adapter:(root@kali)
ifconfig
Step-1: Create a directory and create a txt file with some message inside it.
Step-2: The apt update command updates the local repository with package metadata (info about the
latest versions available) and prints the list of upgradeable packages. Always execute the update
command before upgrades or installations to ensure to get the latest version.
Step-3: The command `apt install openssh-server` installs the OpenSSH server on a Linux system. This
enables the system to accept secure remote connections via SSH “Secure Shell”, commonly used for
remote administration and secure command-line access.
Step-4: ufw status command (Check the status of the UFW firewall.). It will display that ufw command
doesn’t exist in your system so select yes or y to proceed and it will install the packages.
Step-5: ufw enable command (Enable the UFW Firewall)
Step-6: ufw allow command (Allow port/service through the UFW firewall)
Step-7: ufw status command (To check the added ports are being displayed)
Step-7: The command `service ssh start is used to start the SSH (Secure Shell) server on a Linux
system. It initiates the SSH server, allowing it to listen for incoming secure remote connections,
typically used for remote administration, file transfer, and secure command-line access to the system
Step-8: The command `service ssh status ‘provides a summary of the status of the SSH (Secure Shell)
server on a Linux system. It displays information about whether the SSH server is running, stopped, or
encountering any issues, helping you to check the server's operational status
Step-9: Open PuTTY Application (Putty is a free, open-source application for Windows that enables
secure remote access to other computers or devices over various network protocols, such as SSH, Telnet,
and serial connections. It's a versatile terminal emulator often used for tasks like managing servers and
networking equipment from a Windows computer.) Add the IP address and the port number, select SSH
as connection type and click ‘Open’.
Step-10: Login as kali and the password is kali (the password is being masked/hidden).
Step-11: sudo -l command (The -l (list) option will print out the commands allowed (and forbidden) the
user on the current host.)
Step-12: Now, you can access the files from the virtual machine on PuTTy. 